# SDR-Reciever--3-8-MHz
This project is a radio receiver operating between the frequencies 3MHz – 8MHz. covers the 80 and 40 band of Amateur Radio in America. The receiver is designed to operate with the Quisk program for Windows, Mac, and Linux and run by an Arduino Nano. The project creators used Windows and Chromebook computers to operate Quisk and an external soundcard provided by our professor (Dr. Frohne) to interface from the receiver to Quisk.
## Circuit Description
The simple block diagram above shows the intended design’s major components. The filters purpose is to filter out a wide range of frequencies leaving a small enough range such that strong signals from undesired frequencies do not interfere with the desired signal.  There are many frequency ranges to choose from; however, we will design our receiver to accept signals between 3.000 MHz and 8.000 MHz. This range includes the training class sections of HAM radio in the 80 meter band, we decided it would be informative and useful to have the ability to listen to HAM radio classes. The filtered signal is passed through a transformer that is center tapped on the secondary side (the primary side being the source of the signal) to produce a copy and an inversion of the original signal which are fed into the Mixer to produce a frequency readable by the USB soundcard. The Mixer is controlled by an oscillator, flipping the Mixer’s signal between the high and low of the signal passed from the transformer. This mixer outputs two signals (I and Q) and passes each to its own Opamp for each to give the signal a reasonable magnitude and reduce the effect of interference noise. These I and Q signals are then passed to the USB soundcard then Quisk takes the signals and performs signal processing based on the frequency of the LO signal and the desired tuning frequency.Quisk then sends the processed signals to the headphone output on the sound card.. 
## Bandpass Filter
	There are several types of bandpass filters, however we chose to use a Butterworth filter due to its low ripple in the passband and smooth roll off. If ripples in the passband are present some frequencies would come in at a lower or higher volume so the volume would have to be adjusted each time the station was changed. We decided to use a third order Butterworth filter to balance design simplicity and functionality. The calculations for the Butterworth bandpass filter were done using an online program called RF-Tools. 
## Transformer
The transformers purpose is to isolate the grounds of the bandpass filter and the rest of the circuit. The transformer should be wound 1:2 and center tapped (shown below) to an offset voltage to keep from attenuating or amplifying the signal. 



## Oscillator
We chose the Si514 oscillator because it is reprogrammable from 0.1-250MHz giving us the ability to easily make tweaks to the design. It also does not require an external crystal unlike other oscillator ICs making designing and building the board simpler. The oscillator is powered by the Arduino Nano’s 3V3 output and programmed by the I2C protocol via the Arduino Nano’s  A4 (SDA) and A5 (SCL) outputs to the oscillator. The oscillator has two modes of programming, a mode for large frequency change (a change of more than ???????????????) and a mode for fine tuning the frequency value. Arduino test code was developed to load the register values that need to be changed for a large frequency change. The test code can be found in the Appendix. The values to be loaded are dependent on the desired frequency and were, for this iteration of the project, calculated using the Programmable Oscillator Calculator, a program provided by the designer of the IC, Silicon Labs (Link in sources). In the future we plan to have the Arduino do this natively based off a request from Quisk. We were unable to implement a feature that allows Quisk to control the oscillator due to time constraints.
OP-AMP
We used a 4580D Op-Amp because it low noise, it typically used in audio applications, and is able to run on the lower voltages we are using in this project. The Op-Amp is powered by the Arduino Nano’s 5V output on the V+ side and connected to ground on the V-, this gives the audio a DC offset that we need for correct amplifying. As far as our tests go, the Op-Amp is working as expected and has no problems.

## Switching Device

## Resistors and Capacitors
The LTSpice software aided in the selection of the correct valued resistors, and capacitors. For our application we would like the input impedance to match our assumed 50Ω input. The capacitors from the mixer output are to reduce the amplitude of unnecessary higher frequency AC signals to DC ground and their values were advised by Dr. Frohne.
